---
title: Development and support
---

License
=======

QField is released under the GNU Public License (GPL) Version 2 or
above. Developing QField under this license means that you can inspect
and modify the source code and guarantees that you will always have
access to a QGIS based field data collection app that is free of cost
and can be freely modified.

You can find the sourcecode [on
github](https://github.com/opengisch/QField)

Support
=======

You can ask your questions on
[gis.stackexchange](http://gis.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/qfield?sort=newest)

You can use the [user mailing
list](http://lists.qfield.org/listinfo.cgi/users-qfield.org)

We also provide commercial support, [contact
us](http://www.opengis.ch/contact/)

Make it grow, make it yours {#old_make_it_grow}
---------------------------

This is a list of features which we think are very useful for a nice
user experience and an effective workflow.

### Edit widgets

Edit widgets are a core part of efficient field work. Entering
attributes on a touch device is one of the jobs that takes the most time
and keeping this task as easy as possible is key for pleasuring work.

Some important `edit field widgets are already
available<old_edit_field_widgets>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} but
much more is possible [for example in
QGIS](http://gis.stackexchange.com/a/30051/9839).

### Legend

To properly interpret the contents of a map, a legend is a very useful
tool. It gives a user the required context to understand the semantic
meaning of colors, shapes, strokes and other visual coding.

It can also be used to access additional meta data of individual layers
or chose which layer to work on.

### Connection based on-/offline synchronization

Data collection is one of the domains where QField can help a lot. The
final destination of data is normally not on the device itself but
somewhere on a database. Currently it is possible to directly work on
the database but since network access is often unreliable when in the
field, it boils down to manual synchronization on a desktop computer.

It would be great to have a synchronization process running on the
devices where data will be synchronized automatically with a server when
the network is available and cache data locally whenever no network
connection is available.

This may be combined with [GeoGIG](http://geogig.org/) or other server
components like a database.

### Improved coordinate precision

Computers work mostly with two different datatypes for storing decimals
(floating point numbers) internally.
[Single](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-precision_floating-point_format)
and
[double](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double-precision_floating-point_format)
precision. With single precision only the first 6 digits of a number are
significant and can be trusted, with double precision the first 15
digits can be trusted. This takes all digits (before and after the
decimal point) into account.

When working with coordinates this is very important when a high
accurracy is required. Only having 6 significant digits often means
having a maximum accurracy around one meter but depends on the CRS and
location on the earth surface.

Some parts of QField currently treat coordinates with single point
precision. It would be a very good improvement to be able to use the
full precision of accurate positioning devices by fixing this
shortcoming.

### Saving GPS status information into attributes

Positioning devices offer more information than just latitude and
longitude. They are also able to estimate the precision which they are
currently able to provide. This information can be a radius calculated
from variables like the number of satellites but also additional flags
for parameters like the RTK status.

### Editing geometries

QField offers to digitize new geometries, edit existing attributes or
delete features. What it lacks is the feature to edit existing
geometries.

This can be split into different pieces like moving points, moving other
features, editing vertices, moving edges\...

### Search functionality

Locating features with the help of a search field is something that can
really help to work more efficient. In general this can be split into
two categories:

Attribute based search

:   Search results are provided based on the attributes of features on
    layers within the project. Either a local database for searching is
    available. The data inside is based on the customized data you work
    with or the layers are queried directly for features with attributes
    in question.

Geocoding

:   Search results are provided based on real world addresses. Services
    like [Nominatim](http://nominatim.openstreetmap.org/) can be
    accessed via a web interface and convert real-world addresses to
    locations on a map. Just try the link.

### External measurement devices

Are you working with external devices with sensors? Air pressure,
temperature, slope, carbon monoxide concentration, you name it\...
Wouldn\'t it be great to not having to read the information from your
external device and manually typing it again? We would love to make life
easier for you by adding support for directly connecting your external
measurement device to QField.

### Record Audio

Ever wondered how you would write a lot of text when out in the field
with a touch screen?

Just don\'t!

It would be amazing to have the possibility to have audio integration
just like image integration. When back in the office, you could just
type in the information on a regular keyboard.

### Open QGS files on click

Simply open a QGIS project in QField by clicking on it in your file
manager.

### \[Your favorite feature\]

You probably have plenty of ideas for other nice features. Please
contact us and we can discuss the best approach to integrate this idea
into QField or a derived app.

Funding
=======

The following oranizations have contributed to make QField what it
currently is. We would like to warmly say: Thanks a lot!

::: {.container .clearer .text-center}
[![SIGE](/images/logo_sige.jpg){width="200px"}](http://www.sige.ch)

[![Schweizerische Vogelwarte](/images/logo_vogelwarte.gif){width="200px"}](http://www.vogelwarte.ch)

[![Géoconseils SA](/images/logo_geoconseils.png){width="200px"}](http://www.geoconseils.ch)
:::

::: {.container .clearer .text-center}
[![hydro safety srls](/images/logo_hydrosafety.png){width="200px"}](http://www.hydro-safety.com/)

[![Ville de Vevey](/images/logo_vevey.png){width="100px"}](http://www.vevey.ch)

[![Ville de Morges](/images/logo_morges.png){width="100px"}](http://www.morges.ch)
:::

::: {.container .clearer .text-center}
[![ibW Höhere Fachschule Südostschweiz](/images/logo_ibw.png){width="200px"}](http://www.ibw.ch)
:::

Credits
=======

QField is developped by OPENGIS.ch. OPENGIS.ch does consulting,
development and training for open source software including QField and
QGIS.

[![OPENGIS.ch](/images/openGis-websiteLogo.png)](http://www.opengis.ch)

API stability
=============

QField is currently not considered API stable.
