Collect features
================

To start digitizing new features, enable the **Edit mode** in the main
menu (*pencil button*) and select the layer on which you want to add a
new feature (the layer will be highlighted in green).

::: {.container .clearer .text-left}
![](../images/collect_features.webp){width="300px"}
:::

Points
------

Navigate the crosshair in the center of the screen to the desired
location and click the **+ button** at the lower right of the screen to
confirm the creation of a new point feature.

You can use the **keep centered** button to force the crosshair to
center on your location if you have enabled the GPS.

Lines and polygons
------------------

Navigate the crosshair in the center of the screen to the desired start
of the line or polygon and click the **Plus (+) button** at the lower
right of the screen to add the first node.

Proceed with adding points to form you line or polygon by clicking the
**Plus (+) button** each time you want to add a new node.

Click the **Minus (-) button** to remove the last added node.

Click the **Close (X) button** to cancel the feature creation
completely.

When you have added a least 2 nodes for a line or 3 nodes for a polygon,
a **Save button** will appear. Click on it to finish your sketch.

Attribute form
--------------

After digitizing a geometry, the attribute form will be displayed if it
is not suppressed and the user will be asked to enter the attributes for
the new feature. The form which appears allows entering attribute values
for the new feature.

### Remember attribute values

For quick collection of rather homogeneus datasets, it is crucial to not
having to enter the same attribute values over an over. The checkboxes
at the right of every attribute allow remembering each attribute
individually so that the next time you will add a feature on the same
layer, these attributes will be automatically pre-filled.

::: {.container}
::: {.vimeo}
526919606
:::
:::

Delete features
===============

Deleting features is only possible in digitize mode.

::: {.container .clearer .text-left}
![](../images/delete_features.webp){width="300px"}
:::

To delete a feature, identify it first by a short tap on it. Then select
it with a long press in the identification list, select further features
to delete if you want and click the trash button to confirm the
deletion.

Edit features
=============

To edit, tap on **Menu button -\> pencil.**

You can edit an existing feature by moving, adding or deleting the
vertex and also spliting.

Vertex tool
-----------

It is possible to move and delete vertices of geometries and add new
ones.

::: {.container .clearer .text-left}
![](../images/edit_geom_feature.gif){width="300px"}
:::

Split tool
----------

It is possible to split an existing geometry by drawing a line where it
should be split.

::: {.container .clearer .text-left}
![](../images/split_geom_feature.webp){width="300px"}
:::
